docs/border-styles/border-styles/add-thin-border.mdx, before:

---
title: "addThinBorder"
---

## Overview

The `addThinBorder` function applies a thin, customizable border to an HTML element on a specified side or orientation. It allows you to define the color, side placement, and outset spacing, along with an optional class name for further styling.

### Parameters

- `element`: The target HTML element to which the thin border will be applied.
- `borderOptions` (**_optional_**): An object for configuring the thin border, including:
  - `color`: The color of the thin border (defaults to a secondary theme color).
  - `side`: The side(s) where the thin border should be placed (e.g., `'top'`, `'bottom'`, `'left'`, `'right'`, `'horizontal'`, or `'vertical'`).
  - `outset`: The amount of spacing between the thin border and the element (applies horizontally or vertically depending on the selected side).
- `className` (**_optional_**): Custom class name for applying additional CSS styles to the border container.

### Returns

An `HTMLDivElement` that wraps the original element with the thin border applied.

## Demo

### Example 1

```js
import { addThinBorder } from "bordex";

// Assuming you have an HTML element to apply the border to
const element = document.getElementById("element");

// Adds a thin border to an element.
addThinBorder(element, {}, "element");
```

![example border demo](/border-style-images/thin-border-demo.jpg)

### Example 2

```js
import { addThinBorder } from "bordex";

// Assuming you have an HTML element to apply the border to
const element = document.getElementById("element");

// Adds a thin border to an element with a specified options.
addThinBorder(element, { side: "horizontal" }, "element");
```

![example border demo](/border-style-images/thin-border-demo-options.jpg)

Commit message:

chore: add admonition, for more info about the API function

docs/border-styles/border-styles/add-thin-border.mdx, after:

---
title: "addThinBorder"
---

## Overview

The `addThinBorder` function applies a thin, customizable border to an HTML element on a specified side or orientation. It allows you to define the color, side placement, and outset spacing, along with an optional class name for further styling.

### Parameters

- `element`: The target HTML element to which the thin border will be applied.
- `borderOptions` (**_optional_**): An object for configuring the thin border, including:
  - `color`: The color of the thin border (defaults to a secondary theme color).
  - `side`: The side(s) where the thin border should be placed (e.g., `'top'`, `'bottom'`, `'left'`, `'right'`, `'horizontal'`, or `'vertical'`).
  - `outset`: The amount of spacing between the thin border and the element (applies horizontally or vertically depending on the selected side).
- `className` (**_optional_**): Custom class name for applying additional CSS styles to the border container.

### Returns

An `HTMLDivElement` that wraps the original element with the thin border applied.

## Demo

:::warning Function Notice: Limited Background Support
This function may not work properly if the original element or the border container element has a background applied.

For best results, avoid setting a background on these elements until improvements are made.
:::

### Example 1

```js
import { addThinBorder } from "bordex";

// Assuming you have an HTML element to apply the border to
const element = document.getElementById("element");

// Adds a thin border to an element.
addThinBorder(element, {}, "element");
```

![example border demo](/border-style-images/thin-border-demo.jpg)

### Example 2

```js
import { addThinBorder } from "bordex";

// Assuming you have an HTML element to apply the border to
const element = document.getElementById("element");

// Adds a thin border to an element with a specified options.
addThinBorder(element, { side: "horizontal" }, "element");
```

![example border demo](/border-style-images/thin-border-demo-options.jpg)
